[ld2412] New component docs (#5071)
OttoWinter/esphomedocs: components/sensor/ld2412.rst

> ld2412 Sensor

Reviewer: ```suggestion
LD2412 Sensor
```

=============

.. seo::
    :description: Instructions for setting up ld2412 sensors.
    :image: ld2412.png

Component/Hub
-------------
.. _ld2412-component:

> The ``ld2412`` sensor platform allows you to use HI-LINK ld2412 motion and presence sensors with ESPHome.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The ``ld2412`` sensor platform allows you to use HI-LINK LD2412 motion and presence sensors with ESPHome.
```

The :ref:`UART <uart>` is required to be set up in your configuration for this sensor to work, ``parity`` and ``stop_bits`` **must be** respectively ``NONE`` and ``1``.

> Use of hardware UART pins is highly recommended, in order to support the out-of-the-box 256000 baud rate of the ld2412 sensor.

Reviewer: I think it uses 115200 by default -- at least, that's what I get upon factory resetting it.
```suggestion
Use of hardware UART pins is highly recommended, in order to support the out-of-the-box 115200 baud rate of the LD2412 sensor.
```

Reviewer: I just checked and the reference manual says the default is 115200.

.. figure:: images/ld2412.png
    :align: center
    :width: 50.0%

>     ld2412 motion and presence sensor

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    LD2412 motion and presence sensor
```

.. code-block:: yaml

    # Example configuration entry
    ld2412:
      id: ld2412
      throttle: 3s

Configuration variables:
************************

- **uart_id** (*Optional*, :ref:`config-id`): Manually specify the ID of the :ref:`UART Component <uart>` if you want

>   to use multiple UART buses.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **uart_id** (*Optional*, :ref:`config-id`): Manually specify the ID of the :ref:`UART Component <uart>`, which is necessary
  if you have multiple UARTs defined in your configuration.
```

> - **throttle** (*Optional*, int): Time in milliseconds to control the rate of data updates. Defaults to ``1000ms``.

Reviewer: Would it be better to just say "1s"?

Author: I think we should leave ms to put some enfashis that this attribute support su multiples and they are preferred for the ld2412 in order to keep the component responsive

> - **id** (*Optional*, :ref:`config-id`): Manually specify the ID for this :doc:`ld2412` component if you need multiple components.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **id** (*Optional*, :ref:`config-id`): Manually specify the ID for this :doc:`ld2412` component.
```

Binary Sensor
-------------

The ``ld2412`` binary sensor allows you to use your :doc:`ld2412` to perform different
measurements.

.. code-block:: yaml

    binary_sensor:
      - platform: ld2412
        has_target:
          name: Presence
        has_moving_target:
          name: Moving Target
        has_still_target:
          name: Still Target
        dynamic_background_correction_status:
          name: Dynamic Background Correction Status
        out_pin_presence_status:
          name: Out Pin Presence Status

..

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Configuration variables:
************************

- **has_target** (*Optional*): If true target detect either still or in movement.
  All options from :ref:`Binary Sensor <config-binary_sensor>`.
- **has_moving_target** (*Optional*): True if a moving target is detected.
  All options from :ref:`Binary Sensor <config-binary_sensor>`.
- **has_moving_target** (*Optional*): True if a moving target is detected.
  All options from :ref:`Binary Sensor <config-binary_sensor>`.
- **has_still_target** (*Optional*): True if a still target is detected.
  All options from :ref:`Binary Sensor <config-binary_sensor>`.

> - **dynamic_background_correction_status** (*Optional*): True if a the dynamic background correction is in progress

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **dynamic_background_correction_status** (*Optional*): True while dynamic background correction is in progress.
```

  All options from :ref:`Binary Sensor <config-binary_sensor>`.
- **out_pin_presence_status** (*Optional*): True if a presence is causing the output pin to be triggered.
  All options from :ref:`Binary Sensor <config-binary_sensor>`.

> - **ld2412_id** (*Optional*, :ref:`config-id`): Manually specify the ID for the :doc:`ld2412` component if you are using multiple components.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **ld2412_id** (*Optional*, :ref:`config-id`): Manually specify the ID for the :doc:`ld2412` component. Required when using multiple components.
```

        gate_7:
          move_energy:
            name: Gate 7 move energy
          still_energy:
            name: Gate 7 still energy
        gate_8:
          move_energy:
            name: Gate 8 move energy
          still_energy:
            name: Gate 8 still energy
        gate_9:
          move_energy:
            name: Gate 9 move energy
          still_energy:
            name: Gate 9 still energy
        gate_10:
          move_energy:
            name: Gate 10 move energy
          still_energy:
            name: Gate 10 still energy
        gate_11:
          move_energy:
            name: Gate 11 move energy
          still_energy:
            name: Gate 11 still energy
        gate_12:
          move_energy:
            name: Gate 12 move energy
          still_energy:
            name: Gate 12 still energy
        gate_13:
          move_energy:
            name: Gate 13 move energy
          still_energy:
            name: Gate 13 still energy

.. _ld2412-sensors:

Configuration variables:
************************

- **light** (*Optional*, int): When in :ref:`engineering mode<ld2412-engineering-mode>`, indicates the light sensitivity, otherwise ``unknown``.

>   Value between ``0`` and ``255`` inclusive.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Value between ``0`` and ``255`` inclusive. Note that this is an arbitrary unit and does not correspond to any particular unit of measurement for intensity.
```

  All options from :ref:`Sensor <config-sensor>`.
- **still_distance** (*Optional*, int): Distance in cm of detected still target.
  All options from :ref:`Sensor <config-sensor>`.
- **moving_energy** (*Optional*, int): Energy for moving target.
  Value between ``0`` and ``100`` inclusive.
  All options from :ref:`Sensor <config-sensor>`.
- **still_energy** (*Optional*, int): Energy for still target.
  Value between ``0`` and ``100`` inclusive.
  All options from :ref:`Sensor <config-sensor>`.
- **detection_distance** (*Optional*, int): Distance in cm of target.
  All options from :ref:`Sensor <config-sensor>`.
- **gate_X** (*Optional*): Energies for the Xth gate (X => 0 to 13).

    - **move_energy** (*Optional*, int): When in :ref:`engineering mode<ld2412-engineering-mode>`, the move energy of the gate, otherwise ``unknown``.
      Value between ``0`` and ``100`` inclusive.
      All options from :ref:`Sensor <config-sensor>`.
    - **still_energy** (*Optional*, int): When in :ref:`engineering mode<ld2412-engineering-mode>`, the still energy of the gate, otherwise ``unknown``.
      Value between ``0`` and ``100`` inclusive.
      All options from :ref:`Sensor <config-sensor>`.

> - **ld2412_id** (*Optional*, :ref:`config-id`): Manually specify the ID for the :doc:`ld2412` component if you are using multiple components.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **ld2412_id** (*Optional*, :ref:`config-id`): Manually specify the ID for the :doc:`ld2412` component. Required when using multiple components.
```

Switch
------

The ``ld2412`` switch allows you to control your :doc:`ld2412`.

.. code-block:: yaml

    switch:
      - platform: ld2412
        engineering_mode:
          name: Engineering Mode
        start_dynamic_background_correction:
          name: Start Dynamic Background Correction
        bluetooth:
          name: Bluetooth

.. _ld2412-engineering-mode:

Configuration variables:
************************

- **bluetooth** (*Optional*): Turn on/off the bluetooth adapter. Defaults to ``true``.
  All options from :ref:`Switch <config-switch>`.

> - **ld2412_id** (*Optional*, :ref:`config-id`): Manually specify the ID for the :doc:`ld2412` component if you are using multiple components.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **ld2412_id** (*Optional*, :ref:`config-id`): Manually specify the ID for the :doc:`ld2412` component. Required when using multiple components.
```

  after leaving. Defaults to ``5s``
  All options from :ref:`Number <config-number>`.
- **min_distance_gate** (*Optional*, int): Maximum distance gate for movement detection.
  Value between ``1`` and ``12`` inclusive. Defaults to ``1``.
  All options from :ref:`Number <config-number>`.
- **max_distance_gate** (*Optional*, int): Maximum distance gate for still detection.
  Value between ``2`` and ``13`` inclusive. Defaults to ``13``.
  All options from :ref:`Number <config-number>`.
- **gate_X** (*Optional*): Thresholds for the Xth gate (X => 0 to 8).

    - **move_threshold** (**Required**, int): Threshold for the gate for motion detection.
      Above this level for the considered gate (distance), movement detection will be triggered.
      Value between ``0`` and ``100`` inclusive. See default values below.
      All options from :ref:`Number <config-number>`.
    - **still_threshold** (**Required**, int): Threshold for the gate for still detection.
      Above this level for the considered gate (distance), still detection will be triggered.
      Value between ``0`` and ``100`` inclusive. See default values below.
      All options from :ref:`Number <config-number>`.

> - **ld2412_id** (*Optional*, :ref:`config-id`): Manually specify the ID for the :doc:`ld2412` component if you are using multiple components.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **ld2412_id** (*Optional*, :ref:`config-id`): Manually specify the ID for the :doc:`ld2412` component. Required when using multiple components.
```

Button
------

The ``ld2412`` button allows you to perform actions on your :doc:`ld2412`.

.. code-block:: yaml

    button:
      - platform: ld2412
        factory_reset:
          name: Factory Reset
        restart:
          name: Restart
        query_params:
          name: Query Params
        start_dynamic_background_correction:
          name: Start Dynamic Background Correction

Configuration variables:
************************

- **factory_reset** (*Optional*): This command is used to restore all configuration values to their original values.
  All options from :ref:`Button <config-button>`.
- **restart** (*Optional*): Restart the device.
  All options from :ref:`Button <config-button>`.
- **query_params** (*Optional*): Refresh all sensors values of the device.
  All options from :ref:`Button <config-button>`.
- **start_dynamic_background_correction** (*Optional*): Start the Dynamic Background Correction
  All options from :ref:`Button <config-button>`.

> - **ld2412_id** (*Optional*, :ref:`config-id`): Manually specify the ID for the :doc:`ld2412` component if you are using multiple components.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **ld2412_id** (*Optional*, :ref:`config-id`): Manually specify the ID for the :doc:`ld2412` component. Required when using multiple components.
```

Text Sensor
-----------

The ``ld2412`` text sensor allows you to get information about your :doc:`ld2412`.

.. code-block:: yaml

    text_sensor:
      - platform: ld2412
        version:
          name: Firmware Version
        mac_address:
          name: Mac Address

Configuration variables:
************************

- **version** (*Optional*): The firmware version.
  All options from :ref:`Text Sensor <config-text_sensor>`.
- **mac_address** (*Optional*): The bluetooth mac address. Will be set to ``unknown`` when bluetooth is off.
  All options from :ref:`Text Sensor <config-text_sensor>`.

> - **ld2412_id** (*Optional*, :ref:`config-id`): Manually specify the ID for the :doc:`ld2412` component if you are using multiple components.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **ld2412_id** (*Optional*, :ref:`config-id`): Manually specify the ID for the :doc:`ld2412` component. Required when using multiple components.
```

Select

> -----------

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Select
------
```

The ``ld2412`` select allows you to control your :doc:`ld2412`.

.. code-block:: yaml

    select:
      - platform: ld2412
        out_pin_level:
          name: Hardware Output Pin Level
        distance_resolution:
          name: Distance Resolution
        light_function:
          name: Light Function
        baud_rate:
          name: Baud Rate
          on_value:
            - delay: 3s
            - lambda: |-
                id(uart_bus).flush();
                uint32_t new_baud_rate = stoi(x);
                ESP_LOGD("change_baud_rate", "Changing baud rate from %i to %i",id(uart_bus).get_baud_rate(), new_baud_rate);
                if (id(uart_bus).get_baud_rate() != new_baud_rate) {
                id(uart_bus).set_baud_rate(new_baud_rate);
                id(uart_bus).load_settings();

>                 }

Reviewer: This is nice, but unfortunately component docs are not the place for example code demonstrating how to hack other components, related or not. 😇
```suggestion
```

Author: I'm sad about this. I think is super useful. But I'll yield. I'm not so arrogant to think that I know better than you when it's my first pr on this project (and like the second in a OS project)

Reviewer: Totally understand -- and it's not an unreasonable example. We just don't use our documentation in this way. There is a cookbook section for this purpose. 🙂

.. _ld2412-light-function:

Configuration variables:
************************

- **distance_resolution** (*Optional*): Control the gates distance resolution. Can be ``0.75m``, ``0.5m`` or ``0.2m``. Defaults to ``0.75m``.
  All options from :ref:`Select <config-select>`.

> - **baud_rate** (*Optional*): Control the serial port baud rate. Defaults to ``256000``.

Reviewer: I just checked and the reference manual says the default is 115200 -- but also, this is a `select` component and doesn't have a default.
```suggestion
- **baud_rate** (*Optional*): Allows changing the baud rate of the LD2412's serial port.
```

>   Once changed, normally all sensors will stop working until a fresh install with an updated :ref:`UART Component <uart>` configuration. In the example, you can see a little example to how to handle it on runtime. Pay attention, however, that a fresh firmware install, an update, or a factory reset of the ld2412 will invalid it.

Reviewer: As above
```suggestion
```

  All options from :ref:`Select <config-select>`.

> - **out_pin_level** (*Optional*): Control OUT pin ``away`` value. Can be ``low`` or ``high``. Defaults to ``low``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **out_pin_level** (*Optional*): Allows selection of the LD2412's OUT pin behavior when the sensor detects presence. Can be ``low`` or ``high``. Defaults to ``low``.
```

Author: This change I think should be applied even in the ld2410 component

  All options from :ref:`Select <config-select>`.

> - **light_function** (*Optional*): Control how to the out pin react to the light level. Can be ``off``, `below`, ``above``

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **light_function** (*Optional*): Allows selection of how the LD2412's OUT pin will react to the light level. Can be ``off``, `below`, ``above``. Note that this works in conjunction with presence detection. See the reference manual for details.
```

> - **ld2412_id** (*Optional*, :ref:`config-id`): Manually specify the ID for the :doc:`ld2412` component if you are using multiple components.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **ld2412_id** (*Optional*, :ref:`config-id`): Manually specify the ID for the :doc:`ld2412` component. Required when using multiple components.
```

OUT pin
-------

> In order to monitor the presence indicated by the component, with the :ref:`light function<ld2412-light-function>` taken
> under account, you can set up a :ref:`GPIO Binary Sensor <gpio-binary-sensor>`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The LD2412's ``OUT`` pin provides a simple hardware mechanism which reports whether the sensor detects presence (and light) or not. If you wish, you can set up a :ref:`GPIO Binary Sensor <gpio-binary-sensor>`:
```

.. code-block:: yaml

    binary_sensor:
      - platform: gpio
        pin: GPIOXX

>         name: Gpio Out Pin Presence

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        name: LD2410 OUT Pin Status
```

Author: I correct the typo before made this change :)

        device_class: presence

Calibration Process
-------------------

> In order to calibrate your ``ld2412`` sensor perform the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To calibrate your sensor, perform the following:
```

1. Enable :ref:`engineering mode<ld2412-engineering-mode>`.
2. Monitor the ``gate_X_move_energy`` and ``gate_X_still_energy`` :ref:`sensors<ld2412-sensors>`.

> 3. Change the :ref:`thresholds<ld2412-number>` and repeat step 2 until satisfaction.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Change the :ref:`thresholds<ld2412-number>` and repeat step 2 until you are satisfied.
```

4. Disable :ref:`engineering mode<ld2412-engineering-mode>`.

> Otherwise you can simply leave the room, turn on the "Dynamic background correction¨ and let it calibrate itself. Easy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As an alternative, you can simply leave the room, turn on the "Dynamic background correction" and let it calibrate itself.
```
